LICENSE: This library is free software licensed under GNU General
Public License (GPL), see LICENSE.

Author (c) Aarne Ranta 2005-2006.

-- file GF/lib/resource-1.0/README
-- created Thu Dec  1 22:21:21 CET 2005
-- by A. Ranta, aarne@cs.chalmers.se

This is a working directory for the next version of GF resource
grammar library, incomplete in many ways but aimed to become the
first "mature" release. The old releases (resource-0.6 and resource)
will be kept available, but 'resource' will be renamed 'resource-0.9',
and 'resource' will probably be made into a symbolic link to the
current version.

To test:

  make

For translation from Eng to all others, try e.g.

  gf langs.gfcm
  > p -cat=Phr -mcfg "I haven't seen her" | l -multi

The main changes from 0.9 to 1.0 are

1. Refactoring of module structure: there are many more modules now.
   However, the full API is still available as LangX.

2. Increased coverage. We have used the second CLE book ("Spoken
   Language Translation", by M. Rayner, D. Carter, P. Bouillon
   V. Digalakis, and M. Wirén, Cambridge UP, 2000) as guideline and 
   goal.

3. Some constructions have been dropped out or modified. This concerns
   in particular the determiner structure in the module Noun. Also the
   number of verb subcategorization patterns is lower: predication can
   be done by adding adverbs instead. Also the division between A and ADeg
   is eliminated.

4. The implementation is more direct; there is no "SyntaxX" variant of
   each rule as in 0.9. The ease to find definitions and change them
   weighs many times more than the abstraction attained by indirection,
   in this case. Also compilation time and amount of generated code (gfr)
   decreases quite a bit.

5. Judging from the English implementation, there is a promise to get
   a lighter and more efficient resource library, just because of
   lessons learned from earlier implementations.

Version 0.9 is hereby "frozen" to its current state, which means that
extensions and bug fixes are not carried over to it. However, if
requested, we might provide a reimplementation of the old API using
the new.

When will it be ready? Hopefully around February 2006.

---------- later history and status:

21/2 Added modules Text and Idiom. Many bugs fixed, see TODO.

 7/2 Finnish added.

 3/2 Spanish added, except ordinal numerals. Much remains to do in Spa & Ita clitics.
 
 1/2 Italian added.

26/1 Norwegian added.

24/1 French complete, as well as the Romance parametrized modules.

20/1 Main difficulties of French and Romance implemented. Also 
ParadigmsFre and fragments of LangFre.

17/1 All of English, Swedish, and German implemented. Some known bugs
remain, also some ToDo API functions.

13/1/2006 All of English, most of Scandinavian/Swedish, and TestGer
have now been implemented. Most abstract/ modules have been documented
using gfdoc. 
